

* Algorithms
- Algorithms while they define how the procedure is supposed to happen. They don't actually implement the encryption, that's where the keys come in

* Keys
- Generated by the algorythem
- Used to Encrypt and Decrypt 
- Makes encryption unique
- MUST be secure 

* Key Length
- so key length is really determined by a bit size. You usually have longer keys or you have shorter keys
- Longer Key
    Harder to Break
    Resource Intensive

- Shorter Key
    Easier to Break
    Easier on resources

FYI: It's a one size fits one. It's a very tailored thing. That's why we can't give you every possible combination every possible situation or scenario

* Key Exchange

- Remember key exchanges securely transmitting the key
 one of the most secure ways to transmit a key.

End point negotiation types
- PSK(Per Shared Key)

-RSA(Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman)

- Diffie-Hellman
    Invented in the 70s
    Securely Generate a Master Key
    Resilient to MiTM attacks
- Variants 
    DHE (Diffie- Hellman encryption standard)

    ECC(Elliptical Curve Cryptology)
     Anytime you're using ECC, whatever it's attached to. What it says is you can reduce the key link size,to use less processing power, but still have strong security

    ECDHE(Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Phemeral)

    Ephemeral just means that the keys are gonna change. Again, the session keys are gonna rotate. Again, the concept of an ephemeral key means that you have it, you captured it, that's fine. But once you've captured is useless to now. It's only good for that one piece of data during that transmission. A
    
DH Groups

Hight the Number the Stronger it is


FYI: This whole process of Diffie-Hellman and the asymmetric key encryption actually started as a way to verify proof, if you will, code that was running our space shuttles during the NASA programs

* Key Stretching
- So key stretching I'd like you to think of it is a key "strengthening"
- This is really gonna be done against passwords

- Increase the password Hash Size
- Inserts Random Chars
- Increased resiliency to brute-force attack

Types

  BCRYPT
  - Operates on Blow Fish Cipher

  - PBKDF2 (Paasword-Based Key Dereivation Function)
EX: This is what a hash might look like before BCRYPT and AFTER

dac175ed4db3c7c5b34f936e8a5c6daf

$2a$10$WFXwqkiM.lDoa6uFgFFQkOLR0dPECEXJ4gvGhxccs6.1ADgxkMqhi

Break Down

$2a$  -  10 -  $WFXwqkiM.lDoa6uFgFFQkOLR0dPECEXJ4gvGhxccs6.1ADgxkMqhi


Hashing ID   -  Cost Factor (How many times it has been ran through the algorythem) -  Salt  -  Hash

- how to identify if a key has been stretched just starting out with first Base64 / ASCII characters right there at the front. The first section of the key before the first dash would let us know hey, this is one that's been strengthened with B crypt and we can see that by the ID up fornt


FYI: TPMS (Trusted Platform Module)
- little trusted platform module that holds cryptographic keys in the motherboard itself on the systems that it's part of

- If the module gets tampered with in anyway. That little TPM says, somebody's trying to tamper with me and shreds all the keys so that nobody can gain access to the information that those keys protect.

FYI: If something that's been encrypted with it, you no longer have access to. It's like basically removing the luck from the front door, but there's no handle there anymore

Key Management

- key management is just a process. I know, wait for it. Managing cryptographic keys

- Genrations

- Key Exchange

- If it is a public key cryptology, how do I get the public and private keys over to the endpoints? 

Typically we can do that by issuance of certificates. Other things like usage? What do we use them for, right? For instance, if Dan spins up an Apache server or maybe a LAMP server, LAMP Stack, and he's out there on the internet. He's serving up web pages, right? I wanna be able to, or he wants me to be able to trust his website when I go to it, right? Well, he's got a server certificate up there for a web server that has those keys. And it defines that that is used for server authentication.

- User Identification

- Storage

- Renewal

- Archive
EX: When a person leaves your company, right, you don't you disable their account, you don't delete the account. 'cause if you delete the account, anything that that person had access to all the files that they created, all the files that they encrypte

- Recovery
EX:
So things like archival recovery as well. We have things like Ara's key recovery agents, right? If somebody if a key gets corrupted, how do we gain access to the encrypted information? Well, key recovery agent can. Facilitate with some of those, those actions as well

- Destruction
     This is a term that's called crypto shredding